---
title: Chapter 5
categories:
- General
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---

Hey there, this blog post is mainly reflecting on Chapter 5 "Domain Class Development". This chapter largely consisted of principals and concepts that can help create codebases that are sustainable in the long term. Practices such as smell tests, system and unit testing, code reuse enable sustainable development and let developers work more effeciently to deliver products faster and more reliably. But these practices and the knowledge to execute them properly often comes from practical experience. It is one thing to understand the concept of bad smelling code. It is a very different thing to pinpoint the offending code and to change it accordingly.  

This brings me to what I think is the most important part of this chapter--refactoring. In my experiences, the process of refactoring is the most valuable experience to improve one's development process and to begin to build an understanding of how to understand and implement each of the other previous practices such as smell tests, testing, and code reuse.  

Almost all workable code usually starts out in the 'getting it to work' category. From here refactoring turns the code into a more readable alternative. The question here is how? And the answer is through smell tests. Knowingly or unknowingly when one gets annoyed at how a piece of code is written and thinks "There has to be a simpler way of writing this", they are identifying bad smelling code. Then they follow this intution and try different refactoring approaches such as removing unnecessary code, modularizing large functions, reorganization, renaming.  

During this process, because the developer is now focused on creating clear and sustainable code, the question of how to implement testing for this newly refactored code will arise. They have just spent a non trivial amount of time clarifying the behavior of the code and overhauling its offenders as needed. They would want to be sure that they are not going to have to do this again some point down the line. So they additionaly git to work creating a test suite. So through the process of refactoring they have built and understanding and appreciation of all these critical concepts for developing good code. And hopefully, the next time they have to write code they will have learned a thing or two.