---
title: What's Happening?
categories:
- General
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---

Today's blog is a reflection on a selected article reading written by Cassandra Balentine in Software Magazine titled "From the Top". This article was a summary/condensed version of their annual top 100 software companies of the year. The key point of my interest is the paradigm shift that was caused by the global pandemic. This sizable change was not the largest factor that influenced what was on their top 10. Their #1 was IBM, which has been a significant factor in addressing COVID-19, but what they found most valuable about IBM was its developments in AI and data science to create solutions related to COVID-19. What they seemed to leave out was IBM's struggle to maintain as an enterprise during the pandemic. They have made massive cuts in Europe and underperformed last quarter. IBM has also tried to start shifting into the cloud market which could be seen as a risky move considering the stronghold that Amazon currently has on it.  

Number two is Microsoft in terms of revenue generated. This makes sense because Microsoft....... is Microsoft. But the reason sited was Microsoft's new partnerships with other organizations to bring them into the digital age. The example given was their partnership with the NFL to overhaul the systems of communication currently present with Microsoft Surface devices and Microsoft Teams. While I am all for modernizing organizations, I can say that I am slightly disappointed with the current direction of Microsoft. It hardly seems to be pushing boundaries in terms of innovation.  

Coming in at number four was Apple. This was hardly surprizing. Apple has always been in a similar vein as Microsoft. But what is very different about Apple's direction was its redesigning of its Everyone Can Code curriculum which is aimed at getting younger school students into coding. What is genius but also very counter productive is it being in the Apple ecosystem. This product itself is behind a paywall and can only be accessed on an Apple device. A great way for Apple to make money off of the modern day school system. Take that as you will.

The article also covered some of the companies that had the highest growth during the year. This is the category that shows the massive impact that COVID-19 has had on the software industry. For example, SS&C Technologies Holdings, Inc. had a growth of 104%. This company is a double whammy as a provider of software and services for both the financial and healthcare industries. While the pandemic has certainly hit a large part of the world very hard, these two industries have actually seen massive growth because of the huge increase in demand for products and services related to the fields. The rest of the covered examples share a similar story to SS&C of being an organization that is in the right place at the right time and one that takes advantage of the situation at hand.

This highlight of the top software companies speaks to a very big personal worry of mine. The world is far more than software and business and it seems like there is a large gap that is growing between business and the rest of the world. The pandemic has shown this clearer than day. While a vast majority of people have had to shift gears to maintaining at best or struggling to survive at worst, here we have people and organizations bursting at the seams. While this can always be said to some degree under previous and modern economic conditions, I believe there is a case to be made that we are moving towards a more fractured society.