---
title: Chapter 6
categories:
- General
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---

Hello all! This post is in reference to Chapter 6 "Database Development". Databases are a critical piece of software and require a large amount of effort to ensure ease of access, integrity, and security. Often some things get overlooked or shelved for later if a deadline is approaching. While doing my contributions to Zulip I have ran into some peculiar issues in it's database development. A large part of my work has been considering a very basic feature of accessing a database. I have been trying to understand their CRUD. More specifically, I have been trying to understand their process of deleting certain objects in the database.

In conversations with more experienced developers, one of the most overlooked features is often the "hard delete" feature of an object in a database. Given the abundance of physical space available to developers nowadays and the nervousness of implementing a high impact feature, many developers will instead opt to make a "soft delete" feature. The difference between these is that a "hard delete" feature's behavior is what most people think of when they think of the word delete. It completely removes an object and any reference to it. This is in contrast with a "soft delete" where a developer instead modifies the object in a way that may make it seem like it is deleted, however it still exists and can possibly be accessed in some other way.

This creates two types of problems. The first is obviously that it wastes space. The second problem is more subtle. It can create bad incentives for developers to rely on "soft deleted" objects as part of the overall application. This creates the possibility that a developer will create a feature that unnecessarily depends on these "soft deleted" objects.

I have seen this in my workings on Zulip. The biggest offender is a relation called "Stream" which only has a "soft delete" available to it. Because of this, there are many side effects that allow a user to access contents of a Stream even though it was deleted. On top of this, the code base was designed according to the soft delete feature. Meaning other points of functionality depend on a deleted stream still being present in the database such as logs.

This can be such a frustrating issue that can easily solved. When implementing databases, always start with basic CRUD operations. Things such as "soft delete" should be considered the exception not the rule.