---
title: Reflections on FOSS
categories:
- General
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=872"
---

The semester is off to a fast start for my CSCI 492 class. So far I have once again been assigned with interacting with the FOSS community to create a meaningful contribution on a FOSS product. I have also been assigned to read a short paper called "The Cathedral and the Bazaar" by Eric Steven Raymond and relate it to my current experiences. The title itself is used to introduce the authors categorization of two development styles. Cathederal style refers to a more selective and insular approach that values smaller groups of experts to develop and debug. This stands in contrast to Bazaar style which heavily democritizes these roles to a much larger community. Given the commentary on the development of Linux with the Bazaar model and my expereinces with open source, it makes complete sense that there are great boons associated with the Bazaar style. It allows people who care about a product to work on a product and that is the most important factor when creating a good product.   
One extremely interesting point that is brought up about Linus's policy of release early, and release often is how this implemented acts as a reward mechanism it serves as for developers. Upon reflection, I completely agree that this policy helps developers create more tangible relationships of reward with the products they work on. This stands in contrast with the Cathederal style where these landmarks would be more spread out. This would not create the same motivation to achieve a goal that is within sight.   
Another key distinction is made in chapter 10: The Social Context of Open-Source Software. Eric talks about the observation made by Fred Brooks in "The Mythical Man-Month" that bringing in another developer to a late project only makes it later. While this point is very true in some cases, open source communities seem to be the exact opposite result. The must be because of the learning curve associated with being brought on to a new project. Open source allows anyone to onboard and also attracts those who are most interested in making a contribution. This means that they will have a faster or no onboarding time because of their previous familiarity with the product.   
The last reflection I found interesting was in the contents of chapter 11: On Management and the Maginot Line. In here Eric addresses the dismissals of traditional minded software development managers. There claims were in general that an FOSS project could not sustain itself at a large scale or for long intervals of time. This is clearly not true given the state of the open source community today. Eric also makes the point that I agree with that open source projects will always trump conventionally produced alternatives because of one key factor. Open source basis is self-selection. People who care about a problem will engage to create a solution and will put in far more effort because they want to be engaged. There is an intrinsic motivation present in the open source process that can be lacking in traditional. This allows for more effective contributions and a huge reduction in managerial overhead.   
This reading was an fantastic case study and history of open source development. I highly recommend it. I hope you enjoyed my commentary, have a great day!